
Shire of Owlsherst Customal
Statement of Purpose
These are the customs and procedures for conducting the business of the Shire of Owlsherst. This is an
unofficial publication of the Shire of Owlsherst of the Society for Creative Anachronism, Inc. It is not a
corporate publication of the SCA, Inc., and does not delineate SCA policies. Moreover, in any case where
these guidelines and policies conflict with East Kingdom Law or with Corpora, those higher laws take
precedence.

Membership
For shire business only, anyone residing within the boundaries of Owlsherst as defined by the East
Kingdom Zip Code List as maintained by the East Kingdom Seneschal is considered a member of the Shire
and may vote in Shire elections and on proposals.

Non-residents who request "honorary member" status and who participate in the shire and are
acceptable to a majority of the voting populace at the meeting may be granted that status. There will be a
one month consideration period between the request and the vote. Once granted "Honorary Member"
status, a non-resident may also vote in shire elections and on proposals. 

In order to vote, honorary and regular members must be present at the meeting at which the vote is taking 
place. Proxy votes are not permitted. In the event of urgent business, the Seneschal may, at their 
discretion, convene a meeting using the most expeditious manner available to address the issue at hand.

Officers
Officers are strongly encouraged to attend a majority of Shire meetings and to attend any officers'
meetings held. If an officer cannot attend a meeting, he or she is required to contact the Seneschal with a
report, and to ensure that the duties of the office are still fulfilled. Officers are required to provide contact
information to the members of the Shire.

Officers are required to ensure that the duties of their office are carried out at any Shire event or demo.
They are strongly encouraged to attend the event so that they can fulfill their duties themselves, but if the
officer cannot attend personally, it is their responsibility to appoint other qualified persons to do so. 

All officers are encouraged to appoint a Deputy, to be announced at the next available Shire meeting. There is
no limit to the number of Deputies an office may have.

Any problem with an officer's performance that cannot be dealt with on a local level will be handled in
accordance with Kingdom law. 

New offices can be created by the vote of the Shire and added as meets the needs of the Shire.

Election of Officers
Elections will be held each year in May for these offices as designated:
In odd-numbered years: 
Chancellor Minor 
Chronicler 
Company Captain of Archers
Exchequer* 
Herald* 
Knight Marshal 
Thrown Weapons Marshal
 
In even-numbered years:
Chamberlain
Chatelaine
Minister of Arts & Sciences
Minister of Lists
Rapier Marshal
Seneschal*
Web Minister / E-list Minister / Social Media
Youth Marshal
* Denotes offices required by Kingdom Law
Nominations will begin in April. Anyone at the Shire meeting may nominate someone; the nominee must
accept, either in person or in writing, in order to be put on the slate. Candidates must meet the requirements
as set by East Kingdom and Society Law and Policy. The Seneschal and Exchequer may not be related nor
reside in the same household.

The office is awarded to the candidate who receives the highest number of votes. In the case of offices
which require warranting by a Kingdom level officer, that newly-elected officer is submitted to the 
Kingdom level officer for approval.

Terms of office normally run for two years as shown above. In the event that an officer is unable to finish
their term of office, their replacement must be elected as soon as is feasible, with a nomination at one Shire
meeting, and election held the following month. In an emergency where a replacement officer is required
before the above procedures can be followed, the Shire Seneschal can appoint a Temporary Officer to
perform the duties as needed until nominations and elections can be held. In the event that a replacement 
Seneschal is needed, a meeting of no fewer than three Officers of the Shire can appoint a temporary Seneschal, 
until full nominations and elections can be held. Whenever a temporary replacement is needed, preference shall 
be given to a trained Deputy.

Events
A Shire event is an official SCA event, listed on the Kingdom Event Calendar, sponsored, staffed, and
funded by Owlsherst. Since any event in the Shire reflects on the Shire, bids are required at minimum four months 
prior to the event to ensure that an event has the support of a majority of the Shire's members and time is adequate
to prepare.

Bids presented to the Shire should propose in accordance with Kingdom Law:
 Event Steward
 Head Cook
 preferred date and site
 alternate dates or sites
 proposed budget with:
 estimated attendance
 estimated income
 estimated expenses
 proposed fee structure
 theme and activities
If the proposed event includes food, Event Steward should be in communication with the Shire of
Owlsherst Cook's Guild prior to presenting the event bid to the Shire. It is strongly recommended that any
proposed Head Cook be a member of the Owlsherst Cook's Guild, or be acceptable to the Cook's Guild, as
they will be working in close conjunction with them.
The Event Steward should consult with the Shire Exchequer on the fee structure.
Event bids are subject to discussion and revision by the voting populace at the Shire meeting. The
proposal must be approved by the Shire Finance Committee.

The Event Steward will be a temporary Shire officer from the date of event approval until the final reports
are submitted. The duties will include monthly progress reports to the Shire and acting in good faith as the
official representative for the Shire. Also, the Event Steward is responsible for handling monies as defined in
the Shire Financial Policy. No later than two months prior to the event, a Deputy Event Steward shall be appointed
to assist with running the event. 

The Event Steward, Deputy Event Steward, and Head Cook should be available on site for the duration of the event, 
through the closing of the event site.

Anyone who plans or desires to be an Event Steward for an Owlsherst event should familiarize
themselves with the duties and information listed in the Owlsherst Steward's Handbook. It is strongly
recommended that any proposed Event Steward have served as a deputy Event Steward for at least one
prior event.

Demos
The Shire will have one person who coordinates demonstrations. The Demo Coordinator may be an
appointed Deputy for the Seneschal or Chatelaine. The Demo Coordinator will keep that position for a full
term of office of 2 years. As the Shire's representative to the public, the Demo Coordinator must handle
communications with the mundane contact in a prompt, efficient, and professional manner.
Any Shire member contacted for a demo shall provide their contact with the contact information for the 
Demo Coordinator. Any request for a demo must be presented to the Shire for consideration at the next 
business meeting. At least two months’ notice is needed to ensure a quality demo and the backing of the Shire. 
Shire membership may vote to approve a demo on short notice on a case-by-case basis.

Expenditures for demos will be handled in accordance with proposals and acquisitions as outlined in
shire financial policy.

Digital Communications Policy
The Google email list group is to be considered the official method of digital communication for the Shire.
In the event that a contradiction exists between the email list, shire website, kingdom website, and/or
Facebook (or other social media outlets), contradictions should be resolved using the following order: East
Kingdom Website > Google Email List > Owlsherst Website > Facebook (or other social media).

Any official business that is posted to the Owlsherst Facebook group or page shall also be posted to the email list.

Shire meeting minutes shall be distributed to the populace not later than 7 days after the meeting.

Shire Financial Policy

Finance Committee
The Shire Finance Committee shall consist of the Shire Seneschal, Exchequer, and any paid members
attending the meeting. Finance Committee meetings may be simply held during the regular monthly shire
meeting, or they may be held as special meetings advertised in either the shire newsletter or electronic list
with at least two weeks' notice.

Disbursements and Reimbursements
Anyone who is physically handling Shire money, whether it is the Exchequer, Reservations Clerk, Event
Steward, officer, etc., is responsible for the money in their charge. They will be held accountable for any
shortages or losses due to negligence or misuse and will be expected to reimburse the Shire appropriately.
In the case of disbursement of money, a signed cash advance form will be required from the recipient
prior to disbursement. The recipient must provide receipts and/or repayment to cover the total amount
disbursed, either within 30 days of expenditure or not later than 15 days after the event.
The exchequer's office requires a receipt for event site fee, services or products, or a copy of the signed
contract for said items, in order for monies to be disbursed or reimbursed. To ease in record-keeping,
anyone handling a cash advance for event expenditures will be given an envelope with a Reconciliation form.
Money spent should be written on the form and any receipts placed inside.
Officers or shire members receiving a check from the shire for any reason are responsible for cashing or
depositing that check in a timely manner within 30 days, to facilitate bookkeeping. Should the recipient lose
the check or otherwise make it necessary to request a stop payment, per East Kingdom law, they are
responsible for that stop payment fee.
Shire officers are allotted up to $20 a year for postage and photocopying for the purposes of their office.
They must submit receipts within 2 months of expenditure or by the end of the year, whichever is soonest,
should they wish to be reimbursed from Shire funds.
Any officer's expenditure over $20 should be pre-approved by the shire at a business meeting. An
unplanned expenditure over $20 for any reason may be submitted at the next shire meeting, but there is no
guarantee of approval for reimbursement.

Shire Acquisitions
Any expenditure for Shire Chattels of any kind should be pre-approved by a majority vote of the Finance
Committee. A proposal with options and estimates for cost and maintenance should be presented for vote
by the Finance Committee. The person authorized to make the approved purchase may not exceed the preapproved
estimate by more than 10 percent without informing the shire and again gaining approval.
The approved money may be released prior to purchase, or as a post-purchase reimbursement, per the
approval of the Finance Committee. Upon purchase, all receipts must be given to the Exchequer within 30
days of expenditure. If the monies dispensed exceed the actual expense, the excess monies must be
returned to the Exchequer within 30 days along with the Reconciliation Form.

Any physical items bought with Shire funds are Shire property and should be treated as delineated in the
Shire Property section of these guidelines.

Shire Property
The Chamberlain shall be responsible for keeping track of all Shire Property, also referred to here as
chattels. Shire chattels include but are not necessarily limited to supplies such as toilet paper and garbage
bags, cooking equipment, pavilions and group camping equipment, craft supplies, books, and medical
supplies and equipment. The chattels do not include food items left over from Shire events.
The Chamberlain will maintain a detailed inventory with quantities and locations of all items. An
inventory review should take place annually. A copy of the inventory shall be held by the Exchequer.
Additional inventory reviews may be encouraged after events or other significant use of shire chattels.
Anyone storing Shire chattels is holding them in the Shire's name and should relinquish them when no
longer an active member of the shire. They are responsible for storing the chattels safely and accessibly.
Additionally, those holding Shire chattels may not make personal use of the chattels without requesting
prior approval from the shire.
Any physical items bought with Shire funds for the purpose of an office are Shire property and should be
inventoried as such. When an officer leaves that office, all items go to their replacement or to the
Chamberlain.
Any chattels that are damaged, lost, etc., should be reported to the Chamberlain and the Seneschal.
Anyone in possession of chattels is responsible for damage or loss due to negligence or misuse and will be
expected to reimburse the shire appropriately.

Event money
The initial event proposal, or event bid, should include itemized estimates for the various expenditures
expected. These may include categories listed on the East Kingdom event reporting form, and are subject to
the approval of the Shire Finance Committee.
The Event Steward shall require all deputies and aides to request approval for any increase in the
monies allotted to them.
The Event Steward should try to stay within their proposed budget and should keep a running tab of
expenditures to aid in doing so. The Autocrat should report at each business meeting on the current status
of the event including expenditures.
Any Event Steward who is irresponsible with the Shire's money may be prohibited from autocratting shire
events in the future.
The Event Steward and the Head Cook may, if they wish, attend the event they are in charge of for free.
Cooking staff who plan to spend the feast in the kitchen may pay the off board price.
The Reservations Clerk, Event Steward, and any volunteers at gate before, during, and after an event
shall handle all monies received in a responsible fashion in accordance with procedures as outlined in the
Owlsherst Autocrat's Handbook.

Event Refund Policy
All refunds must be requested of the Event's Reservation Clerk, and will be issued by a check from the
Shire.
The Reservation Clerk must receive all event fee refund requests in writing or by email, no later than 7
days after the opening of the event.

No refunds shall be provided if the event does not make a profit, except in cases of hardship or at the
discretion of the Event Steward.

Customal Review and Revision
These guidelines will be reviewed by a committee to be appointed by the Seneschal of the Shire every four years 
to ensure that they still reflect the practice and intent of the Shire. Following distribution of the proposed
changes to Shire members via electronic means or in print, a thirty-day comment period shall be allowed for
Shire members to provide input. Any changes must be decided by a majority vote of the Shire members present at 
a Shire meeting.
